DOCS-6510 Changes (#16)
mulesoft/docs-functional-monitoring: modules/ROOT/pages/afm-monitoring-private-apis.adoc

Before you can run tests from a private location, you must create one, which involves specifying a name and an environment for the worker to run it. The environment must be associated with a VPC and must be the same environment that an API to be tested is deployed in. For example, you might create a private location that you name `myLocation` and set it to run in environment `myEnvironment`. When you choose to run a test in `myLocation`, AFM allocates a worker in `myEnvironment` in Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud.

The following diagram depicts the types of relationship that can exist between monitors, private locations, APIs, and environments. It shows five monitors created in AFM. It also shows a VPC in CloudHub in which there are two associated environments: Environment A and Environment B. In Environment A, there are four private locations and seven APIs being tested. In Environment B, there are one private location and three APIs to be tested. The different line types depict five relationship types.

.The possible relationship types between monitors, schedules, private locations, APIs, and environments

> image::afm-private-locations.png[]

Reviewer: I Think Public Api 9 should be outside the platform, or changed to Private Api 9

Author: Resolved. Changed to "private". I also updated the diagram.

* *Fourth relationship type (represented by dotted orange arrows):*
+
Monitor 4 runs on two separate schedules, and each is associated with a different private location. Each private location is in a separate environment. One environment could be a test environment, and the other environment could be a production environment. Private API 7 and Private API 8 are copies of the same API. Monitor 4 is written to test one or more endpoints in private API 7 and the same endpoints in API 8, though it could also test endpoints in more private APIs.

* *Fifth relationship type (represented by solid violet arrows):*
+
Monitor 5 runs on one schedule, though it could run on more than one. The schedule is associated with a private location. Monitor 5 is written to test one or more endpoints in public API 9 and in public API 10.

== Length of Time Before Tests Time Out

Because tests are run in a VPC, the workers do not share resources with other MuleSoft customers. Therefore, AFM allows tests to wait for a default of thirty minutes for a response from an endpoint. You can increase this time in Runtime Manager.

> // What are the exact steps for increasing the time?

Reviewer: The steps for increasing the time are:
- Go to runtime manager
- Go to the private location settings
- In the Properties edit the property called **executionTimeout**. Time is expressed in milliseconds.

Author: Resolved.

== Scheduling Tests

> When you use private locations, you can run as many workers as your allotment of vCores allows. Each worker consumes 0.2 vCores. Therefore, MuleSoft does not limit the number of schedules that you can create for tests that are run from private locations.

Reviewer: 0.2 vcores is the default we use, although you can increase this setting if you want to.

Author: Resolved.

= Monitoring the Endpoints of Private APIs
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> Private APIs are APIs with endpoints that are accessible only within your network. API Functional Monitoring lets you monitor private APIs if you have a subscription to Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (VPC). With VPC, you can run workers in CloudHub in a virtual, private, and isolated network segment, rather than in a region in which resources are shared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Private APIs are APIs with endpoints that are accessible only within your network. API Functional Monitoring enables you to monitor private APIs if you have a subscription to Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud (Anypoint VPC). With VPC, you can run workers in CloudHub in a virtual, private, and isolated network segment, rather than in a region in which resources are shared.
```
I believe that the "approved" abbreviation is going to include "Anypoint" with "VPC," but I suggest a compromise: full abbr. at first use per para, and VPC after. Annoying, but safer.

Author: Resolved.

> A _private location_ is a worker that runs in an instance of VPC that is configured to allow workers to access your private network. AFM can create workers within VPC that can run tests against APIs that are accessible only within the network that VPC is configured for. The APIs must be deployed in CloudHub. You can create multiple private locations in a single VPC.

Reviewer 2: I have a question in to the product naming team re. AFM. In the meanwhile, I see we document it as "the Functional Monitoring section of Anypoint Monitoring" elsewhere. This edit represents my best guess, although you surely know better than I....
```suggestion
A _private location_ is a worker that runs in an instance of Anypoint VPC that is configured to allow workers to access your private network. API Functional Monitoring in Anypoint Monitoring (AFM) can create workers within VPC that can run tests against APIs that are accessible only within the network that VPC is configured for. The APIs must be deployed in CloudHub. You can create multiple private locations in a single VPC.
```

Author: The problem is that the UI for AFM is in Anypoint Monitoring in a section called "Functional Monitoring".

The tests in monitors are run on schedules. For a private location to run according to a schedule, a schedule must be associated with it. A private location can be associated with more than one schedule for more than one monitor.

> Before you can run tests from a private location, you must create one, which involves specifying a name and an environment for the worker to run it. The environment must be associated with a VPC and must be the same environment that an API to be tested is deployed in. For example, you might create a private location that you name `myLocation` and set it to run in environment `myEnvironment`. When you choose to run a test in `myLocation`, AFM allocates a worker in `myEnvironment` in Anypoint Virtual Private Cloud.

Reviewer 2: "you must create one": does "one" refer to "tests" or "location"?

Reviewer 2: "...specifying...an environment for the worker to run it" : I want to add "in" somewhere here, "in" an environment.

Author: Fixed.

> The following diagram depicts the types of relationship that can exist between monitors, private locations, APIs, and environments. It shows five monitors created in AFM. It also shows a VPC in CloudHub in which there are two associated environments: Environment A and Environment B. In Environment A, there are four private locations and seven APIs being tested. In Environment B, there are one private location and three APIs to be tested. The different line types depict five relationship types.

Reviewer 2: types of relationships OR type of relationship:
```suggestion
The following diagram depicts the types of relationships that can exist between monitors, private locations, APIs, and environments. It shows five monitors created in API Functional Monitoring. It also shows an Anypoint VPC in CloudHub in which there are two associated environments: Environment A and Environment B. In Environment A, there are four private locations and seven APIs being tested. In Environment B, there are one private location and three APIs to be tested. The different line types depict five relationship types.
```

Reviewer 2: I've tried twice but I can't get the tool to highlight the changes.
If you know why this happens in this one instance, please let me know?

Author: The correct way is "types of relationship".

> .The possible relationship types between monitors, schedules, private locations, APIs, and environments

Reviewer 2: This is quite a diagram and I must confess that it boggled my mind, although I have every confidence that you made it as simple as humanly possible. Just a caveat to assert that I could not suggest any way to make any simpler the graphic or the list items that follow it.

image::afm-private-locations.png[]

> 

Reviewer 2: I understand why you chose to use bold for these list items, but it is a deviation from typical list style. Just sayin'.
You do not need the colons. The bullet format provides the impetus to look at what's next without them.
I've not changed this; please do so .

Author: Fixed.

* *First relationship type (represented by solid black arrows):*
+

> Monitor 1 runs on a single schedule. The schedule is associated with Private Location 1. The monitor is written to test one or more endpoints in private API 1 and in private API 2, though it could also test endpoints in more private APIs. The private location and the APIs are all in a single environment.

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY change though > although throughout this list; individual instances not marked.

* *Third relationship type (represented by dashed-and-dotted blue arrows):*
+
Monitor 3 runs on two separate schedules, and each is associated with a different private location. Monitor 3 is written to test one or more endpoints in API 5 and in API 6, though it could also test endpoints in more private APIs.

* *Fourth relationship type (represented by dotted orange arrows):*
+
Monitor 4 runs on two separate schedules, and each is associated with a different private location. Each private location is in a separate environment. One environment could be a test environment, and the other environment could be a production environment. Private API 7 and Private API 8 are copies of the same API. Monitor 4 is written to test one or more endpoints in private API 7 and the same endpoints in API 8, though it could also test endpoints in more private APIs.

* *Fifth relationship type (represented by solid violet arrows):*
+
Monitor 5 runs on one schedule, though it could run on more than one. The schedule is associated with a private location. Monitor 5 is written to test one or more endpoints in private API 9 and in public API 10.

== Length of Time Before Tests Time Out

> Because tests are run in a VPC, the workers do not share resources with other MuleSoft customers. Therefore, AFM allows tests to wait for a default of thirty minutes for a response from an endpoint. You can increase this time in Runtime Manager. To do so, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because tests are run in an Anypoint VPC, the workers do not share resources with other MuleSoft customers. Therefore, API Functional Monitoring allows tests to wait for a default of thirty minutes for a response from an endpoint. You can increase this time in Anypoint Runtime Manager. To do so, follow these steps:
```

Author: Resolved.
